			String API excercises


Java Project: core-java-excercise-2
Package: com.ey.ui

1. Write tester class, Program1 to read a sentence in string variable and convert the first letter
of each word to capital case. Print the final string.
Note: - Only the first letter in each word should be in capital case in final string.
Write a static method getCapitalized which accepts a string. The return type (String) should
return the capitalized string.


Sample Input:
Now is the time to act!
Sample Output:
Now Is The Time To Act!

2.Write tester class, Program2 to read an integer array and find the index of larger 
number of the two adjacent numbers with largest difference. Print the index.
Write a static method findMaxDistance which accepts an integer array and the number of elements in the array. 
The return type (Integer) should return index.

Refer sample output for formatting specifications.
Sample Input :

4
8
6
1
9
4
Sample Output :
4
 
[In the sequence 4 8 6 1 9 4 the maximum distance is 8 (between 1 and 9). 
The function should return the index of the greatest of two. 
In this case it is 9 (which is at index 4). output = 4.]



3. Write tester class, Program3 to read a string and validate PAN number against following 
rules:
1. There must be eight characters.
2. First three letters must be alphabets followed by four digit number and ends 
with alphabet
3. All alphabets should be in capital case.
 
Print "Valid" if the PAN no. is valid, else print "Invalid".
 
Write a static method validatePAN which accepts a string. 
The return type is Boolean type

Sample Input 1:
ALD3245E
Sample Output 1:
Valid
Sample Input 2:
OLE124F
Sample Output 2:
Invalid


4.Write a tester class, Program4 to read a string and a character, and reverse 
the string and convert it in a format such that each character is separated by the 
given character. Print the final string.
Write a static method reshape() which accepts a string and a character. 
The return type (String) should return the final string.
 
Sample Input:
Rabbit
-
Sample Output:
t-i-b-b-a-R


5. Write a tester class, Program5 to read a sentence as a string, 
return a string which is concatenation of the last letter of each word of the sentence in capital letters.
Print the final string.
 
Write a static method getLastLetter() which accepts a string. The return type (string) 
should return the final string.


6.Write a tester class,Program6 to read  a string and return an integer based 
on the following rules.
If the first word and the last word in the String match, then return the number 
of characters in the word else return sum of the characters in both words. 
Assume the Strings to be case - sensitive.
Write a static method calculateWordSum which accepts a 
string. The return type (integer) should be based on the above rules.

Input and Output Format:
Input consists of a string with maximum size of 100 characters.
Output consists of a string.
Refer sample output for formatting specifications.
Sample Input 1:
IBM TECHNOLOGIES IBM
Sample Output 1:
3
Sample Input 2:
HELLO HOW ARE YOU
Sample Output 2:
8

7.Write a tester class,Program7 to accept a 10 digit positive number in the 
format XXX-XXX-XXXX as a string input, write a program to convert this number to 
the format XX-XX-XXX-XXX.
 
Write a static method “convertFormat” that accepts a String argument and 
returns a String.
 
Input and Output Format:
Input consists of a String.
Output consists of a String.
 
Sample Input:
555-666-1234
 
Sample Output:
55-56-661-234
